Conditionals 6: NumPy assignments with Vulcan conditionals (#31)
GridTools/concepts: GTScript-Parallel-model.md

# Parallel Model

The iteration domain is a 3d domain: `I` and `J` axes live on the horizontal spatial plane, and axis `K` represents the vertical spatial dimension. Computations on the horizontal plane are always executed in parallel and thus `I` and `J` are called _parallel_ axes, while computations on `K` are executed sequentially and thus `K` is called a _sequential_ axis.

A `gtscript.stencil` is composed of one or more `computation`. Each `computation` defines an iteration policy (`FORWARD`, `BACKWARD`) and is itself composed of one or more non-overlapping vertical `interval` specifications, each one of them representing a vertical loop over with the iteration policy of the coputation. Each interval contains one or more statements.

The effect of the program is as if statements are executed as follows:

1. _computations_ are executed sequentially in the order they appear in the code,
2. vertical _intervals_ are executed sequentially in the order defined by the _iteration policy_ of the _computation_

> 3. every vertical _interval_ is executed as a sequential for-loop over the `K`-range following the order defined by the iteration policy,

Reviewer: whoops, sorry. I read over that. Ignore this

On an applied example, this means:

```python
with computation(...), interval(...):
    u = 1
    b = u[-2, 0, 0] + u[1, 0, 0] + u[0, -1, 0] + u[0, -2, 0]
```

translates into the following pseudo code:

```python
for k in range(k, end):
    u[i-2:J+1, j-2:J, k] = 1
    b[i:I, j:J, k] = u[i-2:I-2, j:J, k] + u[i+1:I+1, j:J, k] + u[i:I,j-1:J-1,k] + u[i:I,j-2:J-2,k]
```

## Conditionals

GTScript supports 2 kinds of conditionals:

- conditionals on scalar expressions
- conditionals on field expressions

### Conditionals on scalar expressions

- Each statement inside the if and else branches is executed according to the same rules as statements outside of branches.
- There is no restriction on the body of the statement.

**Example for scalar conditions**

```python
with computation() with interval(...):
    if my_config_var:
        a = 1
        b = 2
    else:
        a = 2
        b = 1
```

translates to:

> ```python

Reviewer: very clean

Author: I like that you like your work. ;)

```

## Conditionals

GTScript supports 2 kinds of conditionals:

- conditionals on scalar expressions
- conditionals on field expressions

### Conditionals on scalar expressions

- Each statement inside the if and else branches is executed according to the same rules as statements outside of branches.
- There is no restriction on the body of the statement.

**Example for scalar conditions**

```python
with computation() with interval(...):
    if my_config_var:
        a = 1
        b = 2
    else:
        a = 2
        b = 1
```

translates to:

```python
for k in range(k, K):
    parfor ij:
        if my_config_var:
            a[i, j, k] = 1
    parfor ij:
        if my_config_var:
            b[i, j, k] = 2
    parfor ij:
        if not my_config_var:
            a[i, j, k] = 2
    parfor ij:
        if not my_config_var:
            b[i, j, k] = 1
```

### Conditionals on field expressions

- The condition is evaluated for all gridpoints and stored in a mask.
- Each statement inside the if and else branches is executed according to the same rules as statements outside of branches.

> - Inside the if and else blocks the same field cannot be written to **and** read with an offset (order does not matter).

Author: - limitation is only on the parallel axises as you said
- self-assignments with offset are not possible as they are reads with offset + a write

Updated accordingly/

```

## Conditionals

GTScript supports 2 kinds of conditionals:

- conditionals on scalar expressions
- conditionals on field expressions

### Conditionals on scalar expressions

- Each statement inside the if and else branches is executed according to the same rules as statements outside of branches.
- There is no restriction on the body of the statement.

**Example for scalar conditions**

```python
with computation() with interval(...):
    if my_config_var:
        a = 1
        b = 2
    else:
        a = 2
        b = 1
```

translates to:

```python
for k in range(k, K):
    parfor ij:
        if my_config_var:
            a[i, j, k] = 1
    parfor ij:
        if my_config_var:
            b[i, j, k] = 2
    parfor ij:
        if not my_config_var:
            a[i, j, k] = 2
    parfor ij:
        if not my_config_var:
            b[i, j, k] = 1
```

### Conditionals on field expressions

- The condition is evaluated for all gridpoints and stored in a mask.
- Each statement inside the if and else branches is executed according to the same rules as statements outside of branches.

> - Inside the if and else blocks the same field cannot be written to **and** read with an offset in the parallel axises (order does not matter).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Inside the if and else blocks the same field cannot be written to **and** read with an offset in the `I`,`J` parallel axes (order does not matter).
```
Actually, we never say that the I,J horizonal axes are parallel and K is not. Should we extend the domain description at the beginning of the document?
